The theme for this program is
“As Jehovah’s Sheep,
Reject ‘the Voice of Strangers’!”
It’s estimated that there may be
15 million animal species on earth today.
But of all these animals,
which one is most often used in the Bible
to represent good people?
Sheep!
Jesus often used this illustration.
Here are three examples.
First, to his 12 apostles, he said
at Matthew 10:16:
“I am sending you out as sheep
among wolves.”
Second, regarding what he’ll do
shortly before Armageddon,
he said at Matthew 25:32, 33
that “he will separate people
one from another,
“just as a shepherd separates the sheep
from the goats.”
In subsequent verses,
he describes how the sheep
will inherit everlasting life
but the goats will depart
into everlasting destruction.
Our third example: Jesus said
at John 10:16:
“I have other sheep,
which are not of this fold;
“those too I must bring in,
“and they will listen to my voice,
and they will become one flock,
one shepherd.”
But a question arises:
Why did Jesus use a sheep illustration
to represent people
who will gain everlasting life?
Undoubtedly, it was
because of the desirable qualities
literal sheep have.
They’re gregarious,
having a liking for companionship.
They don’t like to be alone.
And it’s a good thing
because without the flock
and the protection of the shepherd,
they’re defenseless
if a lion or a bear approaches.
About all they can do is bleat, “Baa.”
Goodbye, little sheep.
Another good quality is that sheep as a whole
tend to be peaceful, inoffensive
—very different from goats.
As little boys, my brother and I would pet
the goats that my grandfather had,
but if we turned our backs on them,
one would often sneak up behind us
and butt us for no reason.
These are some
of the desirable characteristics
that make sheep an appropriate illustration
for good people.
But the quality
we especially want to focus on
is identified at John chapter 10,
verses 4 and 5.
“When he [that is, the shepherd]
“has brought all his own out,
“he goes ahead of them,
“and the sheep follow him,
because they know his voice.
“They will by no means follow a stranger
“but will flee from him,
because they do not know
the voice of strangers.”
So, what’s the desirable quality?
Sheep listen to the voice of their shepherd
and reject the voice of strangers.
Regarding this quality of sheep,
the September 1, 2004, Watchtower  said this:
“A book on Bible lands relates
that a visitor once claimed
“that sheep recognize their shepherd
by his dress, not his voice.
“A shepherd answered
that it was the voice they knew.
“To prove this, he exchanged clothing
with the stranger.
“Dressed in the shepherd’s garb,
the stranger called the sheep,
“but they did not respond.
“They did not know his voice.
“Yet, when the shepherd called them,
though he was disguised,
the sheep came at once.”
Please ask yourself,
‘As one of Jehovah’s figurative sheep,
‘do I obediently respond
to the voice of the Fine Shepherd
and flee from the voice of strangers?’
Well, let’s talk about this.
The original stranger was Satan the Devil.
Like a ventriloquist,
he made a serpent appear to talk,
but the words were Satan’s words.
Satan thereby used his voice
to slander Jehovah
and deceive Eve.
Today, Satan continues his work
as an evil ventriloquist
using, not serpents, but human puppets
to enunciate his voice
—these acting as his agents
either wittingly or unwittingly.
But now let’s discuss three examples
of how our Fine Shepherd tells us one thing
but Satan’s underlings, or strangers,
tell us something opposite.
We must be vigilant to listen
to the right voice.
Our Fine Shepherd tells us,
as our first example,
these words at Matthew chapter 24,
verses 45-47:
“Who really is the faithful
and discreet slave
“whom his master appointed
over his domestics,
“to give them their food at the proper time?
“Happy is that slave if his master on coming
“finds him doing so!
“Truly I say to you, he will appoint him
over all his belongings.”
We know the Master, Jesus,
found “the faithful and discreet slave”
spiritually feeding
righthearted ones in 1919,
and at a future time
“will appoint him over all his belongings.”
So, what’s the implication?
Obviously, even now,
Jesus fully trusts the faithful slave.
And all of us,
even individual members
of the Governing Body,
should do the same.
But what does the voice of strangers
say on this subject?
“Don’t trust the faithful slave.
He will mislead you!”
And who often have the loudest voice
promoting this false message?
Apostates.
Hebrews 13:9 labels false messages
as “strange teachings.”
Yes, they are the teachings of strangers.
Some examples of their strange teachings
are that the faithful slave
protects pedophiles
or that the slave will exploit you
so that they can live lives of luxury.
Those are both bald-faced lies.
Acts 20:30 says that apostates
“speak twisted things.”
They do this
in order to draw God’s sheep away
and make them followers of themselves.
Something that’s twisted
is bent out of shape,
or distorted.
They speak twisted things
by leaving out vital details,
taking things out of context,
or in some other way manipulating a truth
into a lie or into a misleading half-truth.
Second Peter 2:3 says:
“They will greedily exploit you
with counterfeit words.”
A counterfeit is something
that’s carefully designed
to look like the real thing.
Take, for example, counterfeit money:
It might look genuine,
but it’s fake and thus worthless.
If we’re deceived into accepting it,
we’ll lose money.
But if we’re deceived into accepting
the counterfeit words of apostates,
we’ll lose our life.
And apostates will give us
absolutely nothing of value in exchange.
Can you imagine really needing
a loving shepherding visit
and asking apostates to give you one?
Similarly, we must be careful
about believing everything
presented in the media
about Jehovah’s organization.
Remember, the media is commonly motivated
by prejudice, hatred,
and a desire for profit.
False and exaggerated news reports
are very common.
For example, in one European country,
many people were indignant
when an emotional press report stated
that a young female Witness died
because she refused a blood transfusion.
Were those the complete facts?
No.
The patient refused a blood transfusion
on religious grounds,
but she did agree
to alternative nonblood medical management.
This could have been implemented immediately
and likely would have saved her life.
However,
the hospital delayed matters unnecessarily
until it was too late.
The press report didn’t mention these facts.
While it’s unreasonable to distrust
all secular sources of information,
we must be wary.
First John 5:19 says:
“The whole world is lying
in the power of the wicked one.”
Now let’s discuss a second example
of the voice of our Fine Shepherd, Jesus.
At Matthew chapter 5,
verses 27 and 28, Jesus said:
“You heard that it was said:
“‘You must not commit adultery.’
“But I say to you that everyone
who keeps on looking at a woman
“so as to have a passion for her
has already committed adultery with her
in his heart.”
Our Fine Shepherd is telling us
not only to avoid sexual immorality
but also to flee from anything
that could lead to it,
such as immoral thoughts.
And at Matthew 19:9,
our Fine Shepherd tells us:
“I say to you that whoever divorces his wife,
“except on the grounds of sexual immorality,
and marries another
commits adultery.”
Here Jesus makes clear
that the only valid basis
for divorce and remarriage
in God’s eyes
is if a disloyal mate
commits sexual immorality.
But what’s the voice of strangers
of Satan’s world telling us
regarding divorce, adultery,
and other forms of sexual immorality?
“No problem.
It’s your choice.
You have the freedom to do what you want.”
In fact, in order to make sexual immorality
appear more innocent,
it’s often euphemized.
Sexual perversion, such as homosexuality,
is called an alternative lifestyle.
One so-called expert said
that it’s simply like being left-handed!
Pornography is called adult entertainment.
Adulterous betrayal of one’s marriage mate
is called having an affair.
Many call getting married old-fashioned
and see nothing wrong with living together
without marriage.
And this world’s media is very skillful
at presenting something bad as good.
For example, in a movie,
a female character might be portrayed
as having a husband who is abusive.
You like the woman,
and you want her to find happiness.
Then a handsome man
starts working in her office,
and he’s so nice to her.
There’s an attraction between them,
and the budding romance is presented
as something good.
Soft background music makes it hard
to consider her course to be bad.
It’s easy to keep watching
and hope she leaves her marriage mate
and runs off with her workmate.
And usually that’s what happens.
So easily we can forget
that Jehovah and Jesus hate adultery
and unscriptural divorce.
But when we reject the voice of this world
and listen to the voice of Jehovah and Jesus,
we bring protection and blessings
to ourselves and others.
But now our third example
of the voice of our Fine Shepherd
is at Matthew chapter 6,
and we’re going to read verses 19 and 20:
“Stop storing up for yourselves
treasures on the earth,
“where moth and rust consume
“and where thieves break in and steal.
“Rather, store up for yourselves
“treasures in heaven,
“where neither moth nor rust consumes,
and where thieves do not break in and steal.”
We’re told that our focus
should be on spiritual things
and not on physical things.
And this is especially true
when thinking about where we are
in the stream of time
—in the final part of the final part
of the last days.
But what’s the voice of strangers
of this world on this subject?
“Exert yourself vigorously to acquire
“material possessions.
“Pursue things
“that will make your life comfortable
because that is
what will bring you happiness.”
The question is, To whom are we listening?
Jehovah and Jesus tell us to be content now
with a spiritual paradise,
to concentrate on our lifesaving
preaching work,
and that they will provide
a physical paradise later.
First Peter 2:11 indicates
that we should view ourselves
as “temporary residents”
who are just passing through this old system
and headed for “the real life”
in the new world.
What do we mean by “temporary resident”?
Well, imagine that you rent
an old house to live in
while a new beautiful house
is being built for you.
You’ll live there only a few months.
Would you install a new concrete driveway?
Would you put in new electrical wiring
and plumbing?
Would you install brand new vinyl siding?
No.
You might do a few cosmetic things
to make your stay a little more comfortable,
but you wouldn’t do anything major.
Why?
Because you know you’re
just a temporary resident and that soon
you’ll move into your beautiful new home.
Well, if we think of ourselves
just as temporary residents
in this old system,
it’ll be a real protection
against the materialism
that is promoted by the voice of strangers.
We’ve now discussed three examples
of Jesus’ voice:
(1) Trust “the faithful and discreet slave.”
(2) Reject sexual immorality
and unscriptural divorce.
(3) Focus on storing up spiritual treasures
rather than material treasures.
Of course, there are many other examples
of these two different voices,
but may we all be vigilant
to listen to the right voice!
Of Jesus, Jehovah himself said:
“This is my Son, the beloved,
whom I have approved.
Listen to him.”
But in order to do so obediently
as Jehovah’s sheep,
we must reject the voice of strangers.